Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number 541. In this
episode, Scott talks with Dan
Driscoll about building with the
Microsoft bot framework. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes
today. I'm talking with Dan
Driscoll. He is a developer
on the bot framework team
at Microsoft research. So do
you remember a smarter child
that 25 years ago? Yeah,
I do. And a number
of other bots that were
available on AOL instant messenger.
In fact, I wrote one
back in 2000. I think
everybody well, many developers as,
as their first bot port
disorg to whatever platform they're
using at the time. And
that, that was one that
I had set up back
then, but it moved on
not, not making Zuora Zuora
ports anymore. And I'm on
the team. That's building the
bot framework, which is a
set of tools for everybody
to add conversational interfaces into
their own software bots or
otherwise. Why were we building
bot frameworks in, you know,
late nineties, but now in
the last year, it's become
a hot thing. What piece
of computer science or technology,
or what layer of abstraction,
you know, hit in this
year that made it the
time for bots? Again, it
definitely the artificial intelligence, natural
language processing components have gotten
a lot better in the
last five years. If you
look at the error rate
for natural language processing systems,
they've dropped dramatically in the
last five years, but it's
interesting too, that we have
always been trying to build
these conversational systems even 20,
30 years ago. It speaks
to this desire for us
to interact conversationally with our
software and the tools have
caught up now, which is
great. And so we can
build much better experiences than
we used to, but the
desire has always been there
to interact with software in
a way that's not defined
by a screen. It's not,
you know, bound by the
user interface design that we're,
you know, we're, we're forced
to deal with these bots
that interact with you via
text or SMS or Slack,
You know, text-based bots. Are
they in the same family
or are they in somehow
related to the ones that
I interact with when I
speak to them? You know,
there's, there's the simple phone
tree, press one for, you
know, the doctor press two
for the nurse assistant. But
I'm thinking about when I
call United and they go,
hi Scott, you know, cause
they know me and they
said, why are you calling
about a flight? And then
I'm having a conversation or
a limited conversation it feels
bought like, Yeah, absolutely. And,
and they are definitely related.
Although the bots that have
existed in customer support systems
are maybe more rudimentary versions
of what we're able to
build now. But speaking to
a piece of software has
all of the same conversation
with components as interacting over
text. Or I am, it's
just that in one case,
you're doing it in audio.
And in the other case,
you're doing it with characters.
And that I think is,
is one of the great,
great opportunities that we have
with conversational software. If you
write a bot that can
communicate in text, then it's
actually much easier to take
that bot and make it
available over voice than it
would be. If you weren't,
you know, it didn't have
that text technology or you
had a visual UI like
you have in an app
or on a webpage. Okay.
So you work on the
team that is doing the
Microsoft bot framework and people
can go to bot framework.com
or dev.bot framework.com. If they're
a developer and learn about
this and I can go
and make one of these
quickly and easily myself, right?
Like I could make one
in an afternoon. Yeah, absolutely.
So we, we put together
a set of tools based
on our own experience, trying
to build bots, we build
maybe a half dozen bots
and we realized that we
kept bumping into the same
problems. And we knew that
if anyone was trying to
add conversational UI into their
own software, that they'd bumped
into the same problem. So
we started, we started with
the problems that we hit
and we started solving those.
So the, the big three
that we've tackled so far
is that if you're building
a piece of conversational software,
you want it to be
available where your users are.
And those users are often
on many different platforms that
could be on Skype. That
could be on SMS. That
could be on Facebook messenger,
maybe they're on a webpage.
And so just connecting a
piece of software up to
these different channels is a
whole load of work. So
we built a single API,
a single protocol that translates
into all of those formats
and does all the heavy
lifting of, you know, managing
all the schema is, and
making sure that you're talking
to the right protocol to
all of these, you just
talk to one API and
then, and then you're done.
That's the first problem. That's
the, to be clear, that's
the, like the administrivia of
the, how do I make
a thing that is, that
lives in Skype? Or how
do I make a thing
that lives in Slack? And
then I really just want
to hear like transmit and
receive events. I don't want
to, I don't want to
care about all the little
admin stuff that is Skype
specific That's right. And you
know, every protocol has its
little admin stuff, but we
normalize it and we make
it uniform across all of
those channels. So that, you
know, when, when a user
sends your bottom message, it
doesn't matter whether it's Facebook
or whether it's Skype. It
comes in the same format
and you know exactly where
to look, to get the
contents out and that extra
detail, those things like what
the timestamp on the message
was and who the Senator
was. And even what the
channel itself is like, those
things were communicated in a
way that's really easy to
use and much simpler than
if you had to implement
these protocols separately on your
own. Okay. So that normalizes
all of that. And I
assume that if there's things
that one text-based messaging format
has like maybe red receipts
and another one doesn't then,
you know, it's not implemented
or it's not an unvisible
or do I care about
details like that? Well, you
may care. And in fact,
we think that most developers
will care about making their
bot their conversational software work
great on every channel. And
so we've actually poked holes
through our API to funnel
through all of the special
features of those channels, even
though they may not be
modeled in, in our base
API protocol. Now that base
API is designed to be,
you know, reasonably comprehensive of,
of the features that are
conventional across all of the
platforms. You know, if like
right now, most of the
chat platforms out there support
cards. And so we have
a uniform way that if
you express a card into
our format, then we translate
it onto all of those
channels. In fact, we translate
it down for channels that
don't support cards. So SMS,
for instance. So a card,
a great question. The Facebook
and Skype are both examples
of systems where a piece
of software can send it.
It really does look like
a, like a playing card
almost where it has a,
maybe an icon on the
top or an image, and
then has some buttons down
below. And you can't generate
one of these as a
user, but as a bot,
you can, you can generate
these these cards and send
them to users and give
them more information than you
would be able to with
just a piece of text.
So like a poll yeah.
Poll is a good example
of, of a card you
can, let's see, you could
send a, a card that
contains, Well, if I'm getting
like an appointment, if I,
if I want an appointment
and I, and you're giving
me a list of when
times are available for that
appointment, would that be okay?
Yeah, absolutely. Yep. Or just
a yes, no card, a
card that says, Hey, are
you interested in, you know,
receiving a text message when
your package arrives, you know,
you have a yes button
and a no button, and
you, you could ask that
question conversationally to your user.
You could say, Hey reply.
Yes or no. Or you
can just present the buttons.
And because of the way
that all of these systems
represent these buttons, we can
actually down render that into
text so that if you
send this, this card that
says yes or no, when
you send it to our
SMS implementation, we turn that
into a piece of text
that simply says, Hey, you
know, here's an option for
yes. And an option for
no. And because you can't
push a button and SMS,
you can just reply yes
or no. And, and it
comes back in the right
way. Okay. That's cool. So
I think so card is
a kind of a modus
dialogue box. It's a moment
it's a, it's a fork
in the road and it
constrains things, but it also
is very friendly, right. It's
not just, you know, I
don't have to type, yes.
I can just click the
button and you're abstracting all
of that away. And then
I assume that there'll be
other rich media type things.
It almost reminds me like
of a Twitter card, right.
Where it's a piece of
interactivity that's in the middle
of this, the stream of
text. Yeah, absolutely. Yes. It's
very similar. And, and so
cards, I think we were
talking about like patterns that
are conventional across all the
channels and cards is an
example of something which is
at this point getting to
be fairly uniform, but there
were some features specific to
some of our channels. And
those are things like Facebook
and Skype and others, which
are specific to that, that
channel. And so for those
features, we actually plumb those
through our API. So you're
not constrained when using the
bot framework and you can
still use those advanced features,
but you don't have to
do all, all of the
heavy lifting, all of the
schema management for talking the
base set of core features
across all the channels. Okay.
So there's the administration and
the hooking up of the
bot to whatever channel it
has the chat channel, whether
it be Facebook or SMS
or whatever. And then there's
the parsing of the, of,
of the text, the understanding
of the text. Why would
I not just write some,
you know, string string contains
code and make it really
a bot that just looks
for certain keywords and, you
know, could I make a
rudimentary bot on my own
without you? You certainly can.
And I think that's where
everyone starts. And for some
bots that works, that that's
a sufficient, you know, a
sufficient solution. If you're building
a bot with any complexity,
there tend to be two
problems that you bump into
and we have different solutions
for both of them. So
the first problem that you
went into is that users
express information in lots of
different ways, the, you know,
you may be expecting the
user to say yes, but
they may say yep. Instead,
or yeah, or just the
character. Y and if you
are, if you're building this
on your own, the other,
the switch statement or the
list of regexes that you
have to maintain to capture
all this data, it gets
to be very, very large.
And so we have a
number of tools from Microsoft
cognitive services that integrate into
the bot framework that make
it really easy for you
to do natural language processing.
And the, the one that
I use almost every single
day is a tool called
Lewis. The language, understanding intelligence
service, and Louis is sort
of like a rejects on
steroids instead of manually coding
the rejects in you just
enter a couple of sample
sentences and it learns essentially
what the matching pattern should
be. And it has a
really simple, a URL based
interface where you just throw
it a piece of text.
And it says, I think
the user's trying to say
yes here, and, you know,
95% certain of that. So
it, it takes probably five
minutes to get set up
on Lewis. Most of the
demos I have, I I'm
able to produce a working
and fully trained model and
in two or three minutes.
So, so Lewis is, is
a tool that we integrate
with in the bot framework
to make it really easy
to understand what a user
is saying. So I'm looking
at the, at the website
for this, this isn't microsoft.com/cognitive
services with a hyphen and
cognitive. It's a language understanding
intelligence service. You said Lewis
could also be Louise, and
it looks like it is
10,000 transactions a month free.
And then it's like, you
know, 75 cents for a thousand
transactions. So for the people
who are listening for maybe
thinking about playing with this
prototyping, this, this is certainly
within the realm of something
that they could, they could
do for free and play
around with this. They don't
have to, there's no outlay
to, to start building your
own service. That's right. And
in many of the demos
that I do, I give
the, the 100% free version
of the demo where I
create a trial version of
Azure to host my bot.
So bots in the world
of the bot framework are
all websites. So you just
deploy this website or this
web service that has this
rest API web book. I
create an app insights container.
So we I'm inside of
the bot framework, we log
all of the bots, telemetry
information to application insights, which
makes it really easy to
see the calls coming into
your system and keep track
of telemetry and analytics. And
then I create a Lewis
instance, and then I glue
it all together with the
bot builder SDK, which is
kind of the third piece,
the third problem that we
solve and in the bot
framework, and all of those
items are all free. And
most of them are, in
fact, the builder for instance,
is totally open source and
get hub. So that that's
a thing that you can
just clone and use directly.
So, okay. So you said
there's three, there's three things.
There's the plugging in of,
into the chat framework, there's
the understanding of the language,
and then what's the next
one? So the last one
is building a conversational model
and that's accomplished with our
bot builder SDK. So once
you solve those first two
problems, you're now left in
this position where you have
to keep track of where
you are in the conversation.
If you ask the user
question, Hey, would you like
a text message? And the
user says, yes, that call
that says, yes, is a
stateless call into your, into
your web service. And you
then have to correlate that
with the question that you
asked. And if you're maybe
a couple of a couple
of layers deep inside the
conversation, then understanding that that
yes, related to the order
tracking for a particular order,
and then correlating that back
to like who the user
is, is actually a whole
lot of work. And once
you build one of these
systems, you find yourself, if
you don't have any tooling
to help support you, you
end up with a bunch
of spaghetti code. At least
this is what I found
the first couple of bots
that I wrote. You have
all, all of these kinds
of small methods everywhere that
have to keep track of
their own state. So we
built the bot builder STK
to solve a lot of
that state management problem for
you. The boat builder SDK
makes it easy to build
a conversational model where you
can ask a question to
a user. You can give
them a form to fill
in. We have a technology
called a form flow where
you define a structure and
C-sharp, and our code walks
that structure. And it creates
an interactive forum that the
user can speak to directly
or, or text to in
this case, and just fill
in the, the values of
that form. And then when
the user's done, your code
now has a completely filled
object that you can then
just submit to your existing,
a web application logic. Interesting.
The idea that the bot
framework would create something that
is fully formed enough that
I could even consider it
input into a web API,
is it takes a moment
for me to absorb that
seems almost disturbing like that,
that means that the person
you de serialize their intent
into an object and then
posted it to a web
API. Absolutely. And that deserialization
is a multi, can be
a multistep procedure. You know,
in some cases you may
describe the user may describe
everything that you need to
know in one sentence. And
so picking up the pieces
from that one sentence is
a, you know, a complicated
and involved thing. And our
SDK helps you with that.
In other cases, though, they
may omit some key piece
of data. They may say
that they would like a
delivery, but they didn't give
their address, or maybe they
left most of the format
and you have to go
through and prompt them bit
by bit. And when you're
done with that, filling out
that form, you may want
to confirm it with the
user and make sure that
that's what they actually intended.
So we have that all
built into the bot builder
STK. So it's, it's easy
for you to just say
what the result is that
you want, you know, you're,
you're going to drive the
user to a particular, you
know, having a completed form,
and then we help you
out with some of the
work in the middle. That
is really interesting. The idea,
yeah. This, this idea of
their, of the user's intent,
figuring out their intent. And
then, you know, the, the
pipeline that you move that
intent through until it, it
transforms itself from something that
is natural to something that
is programmatic is a, is
really interesting. Yeah. And, and,
you know, we think too
that getting users to interact
with software, you know, produce
usable middle tier objects, produce
objects that you can actually
submit to other web services
is a really important part
of conversational UI. There are
certainly chatter, bots and bots
that just do, you know,
dialogue back and forth. But
most conversational UI is going
to be attached to either
a business or a person.
And those businesses, those existing
websites that are out there
where you may want to
add an SMS interface or
a Skype interface, they all
have existing logic that you
need to glue into. And
so we're, we're looking at
our tools as, as a
way to extend existing logic
into the conversation around so
that you can put that
chat box and SMS and
Skype, and, but even, even
on your own webpage. So
for instance, we have a
client toolkit built in the,
in the form of it's
an STK that we have
called direct line that allows
you to take a bot
that you've written and embedded
in any application. You can
put it on a webpage,
you can put it in
a mobile app, and it
talks all through the same
protocols back to the same
core about logic that you
wrote to expose your bot
over Skype, for instance, Interesting.
I, I, I feel like
just as a, as a
user speaking as user, not
as a developer, that having
a smart bot inside of
the web on top of
a webpage seems much more
natural to me, and much
more like a thing that
I would use. I have
enough people in chat already
that I'm having trouble keeping
track of that. I think
I would have trouble figuring
out which of them was
a bot and which of
them wasn't and how, you
know, just even picking them
up and, and chatting with
the right person. Like this
was a problem with smarter
child years and years ago.
And once you've got a
hundred people in your chat,
I really need a separate
group, this called bots, I
guess that will come soon.
Skype for business or Skype
could make me a bot
section self-identified bots And, and
the bots that are available
on Skype right now, they
have a different, they have
a hexagonal icon. So they,
they look like bots. There
are some, some that you
can tell and tell the
difference between a bot and
a user. But I think
it's interesting. You brought up
the group conversation because bots
in groups, even though they
have their limits, right, if
you have a really large
group, that can be kind
of a challenge to deal
with a lot of bots,
but bots and small groups
can actually make a lot
of sense. So if you
and maybe a family member,
or a couple of friends
are having a discussion in
a group chat, it's really
hard to interact with software
in that group chat, you
essentially have to delegate responsibility
to one person in the
group to go deal with
the webpage, because you can't
all be looking at the
webpage at the same time,
unless you're doing sharing. And
that doesn't work very well
on mobile. So there are
a bunch of limitations right
now around software use in
group chat and bots are
a great way to get,
you know, a more advanced
functionality, really any functionality in
the group in conversational form
so that you can accomplish
tasks while talking with others,
let's say, you're planning a
vacation. You can actually ask,
you know, members of the
group, Hey, you know, what
are you interested in doing?
What does your schedule look
like? And the bot can
interact with them either as
a group or one on
one in that group conversation
and do much more than
you'd be able to, if
one person took responsibility to
go deal with it on
their own. As a, as
a speaking of that, as
a developer, one of the
most famous group bots would
be Hubert, H U B
O T the get hub
bot that is listening and
watching in the, you know,
the, in the get hub
chats and in, you know,
in chat systems like, like
Slack and it's not necessarily
super, super smart. You know,
it's not thinking about context
and booking you a haircut
appointment, but, you know, if
you mentioned an address, it
shows you a map. If
you paste, if you put
a want a certain image,
it'll go and find the
image and, and put it,
put it out there for
you. And one of the
things that I think is
interesting is that on the
website for Cuba, they say
Cuba is a way of
life, right. You know, once
you have this helpful, you
know, kind of ask Jeeves
in your chat room when
they're not there, you, you
miss them. Yeah, absolutely. And
you, you know, it's interesting
that Cuba has a lot
of great functionality built into
it. There are, we think
that bots are going to
have a lot of capabilities
and those capabilities are going
to be very intelligent in
many cases. In other cases,
they're going to be a
little bit simpler. And that's
what, you know, some of
the stuff you see in
Cuba, where if it just
is an address, it'll just
show you a location. But
even if the functionality is
simple and straightforward, that doesn't
mean that it can't be
intelligent functionality that, that location,
you know, field doesn't come
up in cases where the
user may have mentioned an
address, but it was in
a context where it doesn't
make sense for the bot
to respond. Or maybe if
the bot just does, you
know, does really simple things
like math or, you know,
other really simple tasks that
can't be more aware of
what's going on conversationally. And
that if let's say something
goes wrong, it can't invoke
some, maybe a human to
help out in the background.
And so this idea of
bot intelligence, the fact that
even simple bots can be
really intelligent is, is something
else that we think is
important, even though you don't
necessarily have all of the
greatest, you know, whizzbang, AI
or intent detection, even if
your bot is really simple,
it can still be intelligent.
So speaking of intelligence, the
thing that I feel causes
bots to, to break down
or where I feel like
the illusion fails is, is
contexts as simple as the
thing that I just said,
for example, I was talking
about what exactly I was
saying, what I was talking
to Cortana shrine to show
it to my, my nontechnical
parent yesterday. And I asked
it something and it didn't
understand. And it tried to
launch a search. And I
found that that idea of
the default action, like I
would have really rather, it
just said, I don't know,
but then it just took
my words and put them
in search. But then I
said, no, no something, something
this, and I referred contextually
back to the previous thing.
And at that point it's
lost all context. How do
bots keep track of like
this and that? And, and,
you know, reflexive type stuff.
Yeah. That's a great question.
And one that we bump
up against on a regular
basis. So we've added some
of that into our body
builder SDK, because it does
come up. So often we
build bots where you certainly
do have to respond back
via like a pronoun, you
know? So let's say, you're
looking at someone's office. You
say, Hey, I'm where Scott's
office. And, and then you
can say, well, how long
will it take me to
get there? Or what has
got Sam? You know, what
is his email address? And
so those are problems that
we bumped into and we
try and push all of
those features into our SDKs
so that everyone can use
them Something as simple as
how do I get there
or take me there. And
then it's like, where it's
like, well, I just had
this conversation. We're in this
conversation right now. It's interesting
bots and conversational UI in
many ways is these are
a set of solutions to
problems that we've, we've had
forever where we look at
software and we say, why
doesn't it just do the
thing I wanted to do
and conversations because we can
be. So, you know, we
can be specific in conversations
and, and because we don't
have to go hunt for
the piece of interface, you
know, we don't have to
hunt for the button or
the menu where this thing
is hidden and we can
just express it directly. It's
actually a way that we,
as software developers can finally
give tools to people to
solve questions. Why doesn't the
thing? Just do you know
why doesn't know what this
is and why doesn't it
know what we were just
talking about. We now have
a canvas in front of
us where we, where we
can actually start to solve
those problems. So you're right.
That it is hard sometimes
to, or developers will, will
find it to be a
challenge to process the, this
field, but we're going to
have better and better tools
over time to help them
do that. Okay, now I
can do this in.net or
in node, and I get
the same functionality we using
either one of those environments.
Yeah. So our, our SDK
has first-class support for those
two languages. And we've got,
we have really great tooling
on both sides. It looks
a little bit different because
the coding paradigms in those
two languages are different. But
if you aren't interested in
using C-sharp or node, let's
say, you know, you're a
Python or a Ruby shop,
or you want to run
a button cobalt for some
reason, as long as you
talk our simple rest API
format, you can still use
the bot framework. It's just
that you, you know, the,
the Bob builder SDK isn't
yet available in those languages.
I was having a conversation
with some folks about, you
know, the new dotnet core
and how the command line
works. And we were having
an interesting conversation where it
was like, well, do you
type.net new hyphen T, or
just done a new this?
And I realized we were
building a, kind of a
conversational UI. We were just
trying to stick it on
the command line. It was
a way of figuring out
how to translate that. And
then I noticed that the
bot framework has a thing
called form flow, which looks
to me a lot, like
the way that yeoman does,
it's interactive creation, you type
EO. And then it gives
you a little, not quite
a full screen program, but
you're suddenly in a menu.
And you can say, you
know, please select a sandwich,
press one, press two. It's
it's, it's an interesting compromise
where you're not quite an,
a full on app, but
you give them a little
bit of something. Is that
like a card is form
flow related to the cards
you mentioned before. Yeah. And
so, so form flow is
actually the same thing that
we were talking about earlier,
where you can essentially wrap
a conversation around your existing
C sharp objects and have
it just work naturally inside
of the conversation, The serialization
deserialization and the presentation of
that, that, that choice or
that data. That is the
same thing. Yeah. Okay. And
that, that D is that
a dialogue in the, in
the parlance of bot the
bot framework? It is actually
that, that is the term
that we use. Do you
know, there's a lot of,
there are a lot of
parallels between, you know, writing
basic window managing systems and
running confrontational systems, even though
the presentation is very different.
There are some things that
are similar. And so, yeah,
a dialogue is what we
call it. So you can
nest dialogues together. You can
have a dialogue to answer
a specific set of questions
or fill in a form.
And those things all cough
out a conversational engine that
you can then attach to
whatever. And so actually, if
you would want, if you
wanted to embed that conversational
engine inside of a rich
application, so it works just
like, you know, very similar
to like a rebel or,
you know, some sort of
an interactive language language tool,
the, the Butler lets you
do that. It lets you
glue that straight into whatever
canvas you want Is, is
that, is the term dialogue
in this context deliberately kind
of a double entendre, is
it doing double work because
it is a dialogue, like
a conversation and a dialogue
that pops up on your
screen. Yeah. One, I think
the history of, of dialogues
on our screen were there
because it became kind of
like a, you know, a
dialogue that we have with
people where it's a kind
of a temporary thing that
we do, we interact with
it and then we close
it and then we're able
to move on and do
other work. So yeah, it's
sort of like the, the
two sides of the fork
are coming back together again.
Interesting. Okay. So the broad
framework made a lot of
splash. It made a lot
of, a lot of press.
There were a couple of
bots made some of the
bots more successful than the
others in that when you
can unleash a bot onto
an unsuspecting public, the, the
intelligence behind the bot can
get confused and caused the
bot to do weird stuff.
Is that bots that went
wrong or is that AI,
that guy that gets confused.
And how do I make
sure that my bot stays
constrained and does what I
want it to do in
order pizza and not, you
know, argue politics with be
That's a, it's a great
question. And a very, very
common, I think valid concern.
The, the term bots is
a really broad term editing.
It covers a lot of
different pieces of functionality and
behavior. And so what we
were working on here in
the bot framework is conversations.
So it's building conversational software.
The term bot can also
refer to autonomous software, right?
Like botnets. And there was
actually a, there, there was
a bot recently that fought
a bunch of court cases.
And those bots are, if
you reduce them all the
way down, they really are
sort of four loops, right.
They're just doing one thing
and they're doing it in
a way that is, you
know, very effective to solve
a particular problem. Or if
you're building a botnet it's
effective at taking down a
system, but it's more or
less just a, just a,
a for loop. And there's
also artificial intelligence. So some
of the chatter bots have
some, some AI capabilities where
they can respond intelligently to,
to things that you say
to the bot. And these
are kind of all separate
things, even though there are,
they all use the term
bot and actually robots too.
Right? So, so physical robots
are also covered by this
term, but are not really
the same as, as, as
a three, if you're building
conversational software, you do have
artificial intelligence tools at your
disposal, and you're going to
want to include them to
make your tool, to make
your bot, be able to
understand what users say, you
know, the, the flexible language
that they're expressing to you,
but those tools are very
scoped and they're very predictable.
So that Lewis tool, it's
a red text on steroids.
It just turns text into
essentially an ENM, right? It
does intend detection. It doesn't
do any automatic responses for
you. And all of the
cognitive services tools that we
offer all have mission specific
functions. They'll have a very
clear thing that they do.
They take a specific set
of inputs, specifically set outputs,
and it's up to you
as the developer to glue
those things together. So if
you want to take one
of these AI tools and
strap it to a four
loop, you can do that.
If you want to just
have it returned, you know,
some texts that you've typed
up, you know, some authored
texts that you've maybe collaborated
with a writer to produce.
You can do that too.
That's a little bit different
than having autonomous software or
having, you know, physical. So
physical, soft, or sorry, physical
robots. They're all different ways
of looking at the same
term, but Okay. So, you
know, it's, we're, we're, we're
ascribing a lot of meaning
and a lot of intent
and, and Skynet to a
three letter word here. You
know, it's, it's bot is
a very, very small word
that describes a very large
area. And during this conversation,
we've understood that it's not
just a large area, it's
a whole pipeline and you
can't really point to one
piece of the pipeline that
goes wrong and say, bots
are bad. That's right. That's
exactly it. And in some
ways we're at we're, we're
in the same space as
we were with websites back
in 1995, where it looked
like this thing that was
sort of live on its
own, right. A website was
sort of distinct from the
company that ran it and
it was different than their,
their retail presence. But over
time, the website and the
company and everything kind of
blurs together and conversational software
already has a little bit
to an extent. So my
voicemail message is a bit
of conversational software already. The
out of office responder on
my email is sort of
like a bot version of
me that responds to you
when you send me an
email and I'm out of
the office. So we already
have kind of simple rudimentary
forms of conversational user interface
all over the place. And
as they get to be
more advanced, we're going to
find ways of integrating them
into existing businesses, software ways
of, of running our lives
that are really natural, that
they, they aren't, they, they
don't have a lot of
ragged edges on them. You
know, you'll be able to
do things like texture, plumber,
even though your plumber doesn't
necessarily have, you know, a
single text line that, that
they expose to, they may
have a piece of software
that fronts their phone number
so that you can ask
them questions. You can get
their location and their software
will respond. Their bot will
respond, even though the plumber
may be busy doing another
job. Very cool. Well, I
really appreciate you chatting with
me today. Likewise, absolute pleasure.
So folks can check this
out@botframework.com, developers dev.bot framework.com. You
can get started. Definitely get
started as a weekend project.
You can get your hello
world bot running very, very
quickly, and this is some
pretty cool stuff and it's
happening right now. And I
assume it's being actively developed.
Yes, very cool. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.